ktor-retry-plugin/README.md, before:

# Ktor Retry Plugin

### Install

The `HttpRequestRetry` plugin can be installed using the `install` function
and configured using its **last parameter function**
(_trailing lambda_), as with other Ktor plugins.

The plugin is part of the `ktor-client-core` module.

### Configuration

| Property             | Description                                                                                                                                                                        |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `maxRetries`         | The maximum number of retries                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| `retryIf`            | A lambda that returns `true` if the request should be retried on specific request details and or responses.                                                                        |
| `retryOnExceptionIf` | A lambda that returns `true` if the request should be retried on specific request details and or exceptions that occurred.                                                         |
| `delayMillis`        | A lambda that returns the delay in milliseconds before the next retry. Some methods are provided to create more complex delays, such as `exponentialDelay()` or `constantDelay()`. |

> [!NOTE]
> The plugin also provides more specific methods to retry for
> (e.g., on server errors, for example, `retryOnServerErrors()` retries on server 5xx errors).

Example:

```kotlin
val client = HttpClient(CIO) {
    install(HttpRequestRetry) {
        maxRetries = 5
        retryIf { request, response ->
            !response.status.isSuccess()
        }
        retryOnExceptionIf { request, cause ->
            cause is NetworkError
        }
        delayMillis { retry ->
            retry * 3000L
        } // retries in 3, 6, 9, etc. seconds
    }
    // other configurations
}
```

Default configuration:

```kotlin
install(HttpRequestRetry) {
    retryOnExceptionOrServerErrors(3)
    exponentialDelay()
}
```

### Changing a Request Before Retry

It is possible to modify the request
before retrying it by using the `modifyRequest` method inside the configuration block of the plugin.
This method receives a lambda that takes the request and returns the modified request.
One usage example is to add a header with the current retry count:

```kotlin
val client = HttpClient(CIO) {
    install(HttpRequestRetry) {
        modifyRequest { request ->
            request.headers.append("x-retry-count", retryCount.toString())
        }
    }
    // other configurations
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To preserve configuration context between retry attempts, the plugin uses request attibutes to store data.
> If those are altered, the plugin may not work as expected.
> 
> If an attribute is not present in the request, the plugin will use the default configuration associated with that attribute.
> Such behaviour can be seen in the source code:
>   - [after applying configuration](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor/blob/7c76fa7c0f2b7dcc6e0445da8612d75bb5d11609/ktor-client/ktor-client-core/common/src/io/ktor/client/plugins/HttpRequestRetry.kt#L366-L373)
>   - [before each retry attempt](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor/blob/7c76fa7c0f2b7dcc6e0445da8612d75bb5d11609/ktor-client/ktor-client-core/common/src/io/ktor/client/plugins/HttpRequestRetry.kt#L267-L274)

Commit message:

📝 docs(ktor-retry-plugin): describes ktor retry plugin integration in the client pipeline

ktor-retry-plugin/README.md, after:

# Ktor Retry Plugin

This plugin intercepts the `HttpSend` plugin which in turn intercepts the `HttpRequestPipeline` pipeline during the `Send` phase,
which is the last default phase of this pipeline.

The `HttpRequestPipeline` is the first client pipeline and is responsible for processing all requests sent by a client. It acts before the `HttpSendPipeline` pipeline, which is responsible for sending the request to the server.

See `ktor-custom-plugin` module [documentation](../ktor-custom-plugin/README.md#pipelines-1) for more details on client pipelines.

In short,
this plugin intercepts the request before it is sent to the server
and can retry it based on policies defined in the plugin configuration.

### Configuration

| Property             | Description                                                                                                                                                                        |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `maxRetries`         | The maximum number of retries                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| `retryIf`            | A lambda that returns `true` if the request should be retried on specific request details and or responses.                                                                        |
| `retryOnExceptionIf` | A lambda that returns `true` if the request should be retried on specific request details and or exceptions that occurred.                                                         |
| `delayMillis`        | A lambda that returns the delay in milliseconds before the next retry. Some methods are provided to create more complex delays, such as `exponentialDelay()` or `constantDelay()`. |

> [!NOTE]
> The plugin also provides more specific methods to retry for
> (e.g., `retryOnServerErrors()` retries on server 5xx errors).

Example:

```kotlin
val client = HttpClient(CIO) {
    install(HttpRequestRetry) {
        maxRetries = 5
        retryIf { request, response ->
            !response.status.isSuccess()
        }
        retryOnExceptionIf { request, cause ->
            cause is NetworkError
        }
        delayMillis { retry ->
            retry * 3000L
        } // retries in 3, 6, 9, etc. seconds
    }
    // other configurations
}
```

Default configuration:

```kotlin
install(HttpRequestRetry) {
    retryOnExceptionOrServerErrors(3)
    exponentialDelay()
}
```

### Changing a Request Before Retry

It is possible to modify the request
before retrying it by using the `modifyRequest` method inside the configuration block of the plugin.
This method receives a lambda that takes the request and returns the modified request.
One usage example is to add a header with the current retry count:

```kotlin
val client = HttpClient(CIO) {
    install(HttpRequestRetry) {
        modifyRequest { request ->
            request.headers.append("x-retry-count", retryCount.toString())
        }
    }
    // other configurations
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> To preserve configuration context between retry attempts, the plugin uses request attibutes to store data.
> If those are altered, the plugin may not work as expected.
> 
> If an attribute is not present in the request, the plugin will use the default configuration associated with that attribute.
> Such behaviour can be seen in the source code:
>   - [after applying configuration](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor/blob/7c76fa7c0f2b7dcc6e0445da8612d75bb5d11609/ktor-client/ktor-client-core/common/src/io/ktor/client/plugins/HttpRequestRetry.kt#L366-L373)
>   - [before each retry attempt](https://github.com/ktorio/ktor/blob/7c76fa7c0f2b7dcc6e0445da8612d75bb5d11609/ktor-client/ktor-client-core/common/src/io/ktor/client/plugins/HttpRequestRetry.kt#L267-L274)
